---
layout: post
title:      "Sinatra Project, what a fun project it was to do"
date:       2018-09-19 15:40:17 +0000
permalink:  sinatra_project_what_a_fun_project_it_was_to_do
---


This project has been my favorite thing to do out of the whole cirriculum. (I can code Sinatra stuff better than I can spell cirriculum) This project really struck home with me, because this involved something I actually want to build as a first large personal project and that is Fortnite coaching. I saw where a guy started making a career out of coaching Fortnite and thought that would be awesome if there was a website for that. Flatiron has given me the knowledge to make those ideas potentially become real. So this was a project I really wanted to get down. I had some times where I even wondered if I can figure some of this stuff out, but after meeting with some instructors and talking with them, they showed me more than just what I was doing wrong, they showed me how to figure what the problem is at the core. We did this by placing the good ole binding pry in the code and just going line by line and if that did not give us the answer we wanted then we would comment out entire blocks of code and recomment them back in as needed to really see what the problem was. This showed me something about how to debug, which has always seemed overwhelming to me, but I met with an instuctor named David and he was determined to figure out the problem. That is where I learned not to get overwhelmed and take it a step at time in order to figure out the problem. I often look at a block and get a feeling that I am overwhelmed with information and now I do not feel like that. I just go back to the meeting with David and remember what we did to figure out the problem. Taking this stuff step by step is critical and not making to many changes at once. I really learned on this project do NOT move forward until you have the first step working at 100%. Do not get me wrong, I knew to do that, but I  do not think I really knew how to do that. Someone can say use binding.pry or something, but that does not mean you completely grasp it and can do it on your own. I often did not know where I needed to place the pry, but by not giving up and waiting for some idea to come to me, I kept at it everyday and met with instructors and I know feel much more confident than I ever have about this stuff. This is a blog not a thank you letter, but I really do want to thank, Tyler, Kevin, and David for meeting with me and teaching me so much. I really do think this is the best school in the world and wish every school was like this one. It really brings back the saying knowledge is power, because you can take your ideas and build those things that you envision and since I like to envision things a lot, I really feel empowered to build those things and hopefully teach others one day about this awesome thing called coding. 
