---
layout: post
title:      "Sinatra with ActiveRecord is the bee's knees"
date:       2018-09-11 00:29:04 +0000
permalink:  sinatra_with_activerecord_is_the_bees_knees
---


So I have been working on Sinatra for a couple weeks now and I have had so much fun learning about Sinatra and ActiveRecord. The past couple weeks have required a lot of work and study to understand how these frameworks allow us as developers build bigger and better applications in a shorter amount of time. When I first started Sinatra, I was following along with a lesson in the terminal. This lesson required me to fire off SQL statements that create new tables and associations by typing this stuff in myself on the terminal. I was trying build associate students and teachers, but then just as I am finishing up the lesson, a problem happens. My students table was not generating a student_id column and I was stuck with a table with no student id. How was I going to associate the two tables without a student_id column? So, I did what many students do and I hopped on Ask a Question and asked a teacher. Lucky for me the teacher said when I get to activerecord it will handle a lot of the issues I am having behind the scenes. I was so thankful, because this was causing me a big headache. The teacher was so right though, because when I got to activerecord, I am seeing the same sort of SQL statements fire behind the scene and I could go and observe the SQL statements, but that is not even my favorite part about all this. My favorite part was that the chances of me making a silly error went down! I make silly errors a lot, so having to hunt and test for the errors can really slow me down, but now it felt like I could focus on a much larger picture. The word scaffold I am seeing more and more. I see why too, because these things that other developers have built really allow me as a developer learning about this stuff to at times, take advantage of these tools and focus on a much larger picture. Corneal, which was developed by  a Flatiron student, uses the term scaffold to help you generate your file structure and I love it. ActiveRecord seems like a scaffold to me, because it allows me to save a lot of time that I would have otherwise had to spend hunting for answers to my questions. Not to say it allows me to avoid questions and getting answers to those questions, but it shows me in a much larger picture what is happening and allows me to go back and look through these statements and see what in the world is going on and think more on my application and the function of my app. I am building an application outside of the curriculum and I cannot image building it without these tools other very smart developers have made for us as developers to use. It was worth going through every bit of study to get to this point, because I understand what is going on and if I do not understand, I can and will find out what is going on. I feel like there is this sense of asynchronous form of teamwork going on in the developer world. Once you understand, the inner working of this stuff like ActiveRecord, which can sound itimidating at first, you begin to see the possibilites of what you can make as a developer open up, because these great frameworks exist and allow us to make those great apps that make us want to get up and get to work in the morning. I will close this blog out with a saying from Steve Jobs  who told an interviewer once, that every morning he would ask himself, "Am I doing what I want to do?" After a few days, if the answer was still no, he would make a change. I think in the past few days I have woken up and said yes, because other developers worked so I could build the things I want to build and it gives me a desire or even a sense of obligation to build those apps I envision. That is beauty of this stuff, we have that ability to build like never before and an ability to make a change. 
